= Translations =

If someone wants to contribute a new translation to Digital,
the problem is not only to create the new translation.
There must be a way of maintaining the translation as the
program evolves.

There are three situation which can occur if the program
evolves after the new translation is completed:

1. There are language keys which are no longer needed.
   This is the simplest situation: I can remove the keys
   from all language files by myself.
2. A new language key is added.
   In this case I can add the translation for English and
   German. In all other language files the keys are
   missing and are replaced by the English version at runtime.
   But it is easy to find such keys: Simply look for
   keys which are available is English and are missing
   in other language files.
3. The most complex case occurs when a key remains unchanged
   but the corresponding text changes. It is difficult to
   see which keys had to be revised in other languages.
   To keep track of such keys the reference file comes into
   play.

If a new translation is added not only the translated language file
is added (e.g. lang_pt.xml) but also a reference file (lang_pt_ref.xml).
The latter one is the reference file and is a copy of the original
English translation (lang_en.xml).
When it is necessary to change a language text, it is possible to
detect that afterwards: It is possible to compare the strings
in the english translation with the content of the reference file
which is also English.
If the strings are not identical, the translation needs to be reworked.
To do so, one has to update the translation and the English text in
the reference file.

= How to find keys that need to be revised? =

Digital contains some test cases that check the consistency of
the translations. The test class "TestLang" checks the consistency
of the language files, which I cannot maintain myself.

The easiest way to run the test case is to install maven.
Then you can start the test case by typing:

mvn -Dtest=TestLang test

This gives you a report of the state of the translations.
